# 2. How to use the Geometry Dash client

JDash provides a simple HTTP client to make requests to Geometry Dash servers. This section will show a basic example of its usage.

## The client builder

The role of a client is to send requests to a server and return the response. The client can be either anonymous or authenticated. When it's authenticated, it may have access to protected features in the API. JDash supports both types of clients.

The class `GDClientBuilder` is what will allow you to configure your client. To create a new instance, use the `create()` method:

```Java
GDClientBuilder builder = GDClientBuilder.create();
```
Before building the client, you can configure some options. Currently there are four available. First, you can set a custom host for Geometry Dash servers. This will allow you to use JDash for Geometry Dash private servers (GDPS):

```Java
builder.withHost("www.my-gdps.com/database");
```
You can also choose the time to live of requests in cache. When the client makes a request and receives a response, the client will put the response in a cache so that it doesn't have to make a new request in order to give the response for a request that's already been made before. However there should be a limit on how long the responses should stay in cache, because they may change over time and you may want to get the most up-to-date version of them. You can configure this by doing:

```Java
builder.withCacheTtl(Duration.ofMinutes(5));
```
The default value is 15 minutes.

You can define the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be open to Geometry Dash servers by doing:

```Java
builder.withMaxConnections(14);
```
It will take by default a value equal to the number of CPU cores available.

Finally, you can configure a timeout in milliseconds for requests. Handy to cancel requests if they take too long to complete:

```Java
builder.withRequestTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(30));
```
By default, no timeout are set for requests.

Now you are ready to build the client. To build an anonymous client:

```Java
AnonymousGDClient client = builder.buildAnonymous();
```
To build an authenticated client:

```Java
AuthenticatedGDClient client = builder.buildAuthenticated("username", "password");
```
Unlike `buildAnonymous()`, this method throws an exception if the given credentials are invalid. You need to check it by doing:

```Java
AuthenticatedGDClient client;
try {
	client = builder.buildAuthenticated("username", "password");
} catch (GDLoginFailedException e) {
	// Handle the error
}
```
The builder supports method chaining, meaning you can do everything in one expression if you prefer:

```Java
AnonymousGDClient client = GDClientBuilder.create()
		.withHost("www.my-gdps.com/database")
		.withCacheTtl(100_000)
		.withMaxConnections(14);
		.withRequestTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(30));
		.buildAnonymous();
```

## Sending a simple request with an anonymous client

Let's say you want to get data for the level Bloodbath by Riot. To get data for a specific online level, use the `getLevelById(long)` method. It takes the level ID you want to fetch as argument. If you look at what the method returns, it's a `Mono<GDLevel>`. A `Mono` is a wrapper for objects that are not immediately available. Indeed, fetching data from Geometry Dash servers takes time, and might even fail. So you have several options. The most common way is to use `block()` in order to make your program **wait** until it has received the response, and use try/catch blocks to handle errors:

```Java
// The ID of the desired online level
final long bloodbathLevelID = 10565740;
// The anonymous client
AnonymousGDClient client = GDClientBuilder.create().buildAnonymous();
try {
	GDLevel level = client.getLevelById(bloodbathLevelID).block();
	System.out.println(level);
} catch (GDClientException e) {
	// Handle errors
}
```

If you run this code in a main class, you will get something like this in the console (if the request was successful)

```
GDLevel [name=Bloodbath, creatorID=503085, creatorName=Riot, description=Whose blood will be spilt in the Bloodbath? Who will the victors be? How many will survive? Good luck..., difficulty=INSANE, demonDifficulty=EXTREME, stars=10, featuredScore=10330, isEpic=false, downloads=13617738, likes=1229901, length=XL, coinCount=0, hasCoinsVerified=false, levelVersion=1, gameVersion=19, objectCount=0, isDemon=true, isAuto=false, originalLevelID=7679228, requestedStars=0]

```

## Authenticated HTTP client

An authenticated client inherits all methods from an anomymous client. With an authenticated client, you can for example view your private messages inbox. This is done through the method `getPrivateMessages(int)`. It takes the page number as argument (first page is 0, second page is 1, etc), and returns the list of messages wrapped in a `GDPaginator` (see javadoc for more details):

```Java
try {
	AuthenticatedGDClient client = GDClientBuilder.create().buildAuthenticated("MyUsername", "MyP@ssw0rd");
	try {
		GDPaginator<GDMessage> messages = client.getPrivateMessages(0).block();
		System.out.println(messages);
	} catch (GDClientException e) {
		// Handle errors
	}
} catch (GDLoginFailedException e) {
	// Handle login failed
}
```

## Non-blocking programming

As you can see, you need a lot of try/catch if you want to ensure that all error cases are covered when fetching stuff with the client. There's actually a more proper way to do that. Instead of *blocking* your program until a response is received, you can just initiate the request, let your program continue running, and then when a response is received, a specific action will be executed *in parallel*. Here is the same example as given above with Bloodbath, but this time in a non-blocking way:

```Java
// The ID of the desired online level
final long bloodbathLevelID = 10565740;
// The anonymous client
AnonymousGDClient client = GDClientBuilder.create().buildAnonymous();
// Just initiate the request, and define a code to execute when the request is complete
client.getLevelById(bloodbathLevelID)
		.doOnSuccess(level -> {
			// Code to execute when the request is complete
			System.out.println(level);
		})
		.doOnError(error -> {
			// Code to execute when an error occurs
			error.printStackTrace();
		})
		.subscribe(); // Initiates the request.

// You can continue your program here, it won't block.
```
You can read more about non-blocking programming [here](https://projectreactor.io/docs/core/release/reference/).

## Javadoc

Obviously, there are much more things that you can do other than fetching a level and your message inbox. You can view all client methods available by browsing the official Javadoc [here](http://www.javadoc.io/doc/com.github.alex1304/jdash)